template: post.haml
category: science
author: Vivek Rai
date: 15/09/2015
title: A challenging course catalog
---
A close encounter with neuroscience.
---

I'm very excited to talk about my course catalog for the fall semester, specially
because it's turning about to be pretty challenging and full of new
information.

**Prologue:**
During my research internship at Indian Institute of Science, I had the
opportunity to attend several lecture series by eminent professors, who
introduced us to different fields (e.g., Biomechanics, Systems Biology) and
relevant research they have done in their careers. While all of the lectures
were insightful, one which caught my most attention were those delivered
Dr. Aditya Murthy on neuroscience. His amazing presentation skills, sense of
humor and rigor left me in awe!

The end of the internship marked the beginning of the seventh semester and my
pre-final year. I felt fresh and enthused about learning more of what I had
just scratched the surface back then. Accordingly, I had to formulate a course
plan to steer me in that direction. While, I was still on it, finding
*meaningful* subjects among tens of options, freeing up slots and what not, I
learned about a new course being offered this fall. Guess what? **Computational
Neuroscience**! There was no time to waste.

The course is taken by by [Prof. Sharba
Bandhopadhyay](http://www.iitkgp.ac.in/fac-profiles/showprofile.php?empcode=SWmdR&depts_name=EC)
of E&ECE department. As expected, the course turned out to be very demanding
from the very beginning. A lot of background in mathematics, some in subjects
of electronics which are usually not taught to biotechnology students, had to
be covered for clearer understanding. Moreover, the course involved several
simulation based projects to be done in MATLAB. Top up the entire package with
surprise quizzes. Unfortunately, it took a heavy toll on a lot of people who
weren't prepared to devote enough time and therefore dropped from the course.
At this point, I must praise the efforts by the teacher in order to help out
the students. He allowed all the class tests and even exams to be open
book/notes (with access to laptops if need be!) and took great care in
dispensing proper resources for catching up on concepts.

As far the content of the course is considered, I learned a lot of new things.
**First**, it forced me to revisit my mathematical knowledge which I was beginning
to lose due to continued exposure to just biology. **Second**, it provided an
incentive to learn MATLAB (and equivalent in Python) for simulation projects.
**Finally**, it helped me understand the process of computational modeling, setting
up equations, and the model complexity-interpretability trade-off.

Beside this, I also have several other courses among which **Gene Expression** and
**Data Analytics** are my next favorites. The latter course is an applied version
of more formal Machine Learning course and involves programming assignments
and data analysis projects in R.

Overall, this semester has a well balanced mix of courses to equip me with some
more skills and practical experience as I work across different projects. Looking
forward to completing it with great success.
