template: post.haml
category: science
author: Brian Farley on Quora.
date: 4/8/2015
title: research needs funding
---
Please free research of marketplace thinking.
---

[Brian Farley](https://www.quora.com/Brian-Farley-3) writes ..

> I've said this before on Quora, and I'm probably going to say it many more
> times, but, all of the problems in academia can be traced back to **scarce
> funding and the ridiculous competition it engenders**. The reluctance to fund
> academia and research, in turn, comes from a completely skewed perception by
> the public of what academia is supposed to accomplish -- which in no small part
> comes from the capitalist marketplace thinking that permeates almost everything
> our society does.
>
> *Marketplace thinking fails to capture the value of academia because most of
> the benefits of academia do not carry a direct, quantifiable, financial gain.*
>
> A college education is now viewed as a means to a purely financial end, rather
> than something with inherent value both to the individual receiving it and the
> society of which that individual is a member. Quite simply, people are being
> trained to look at a degree as a way to get a job; the chief way of determining
> whether or not a college education is worth it is to perform a *shudder*
> financial return on investment calculation and pretty much ignore all of the
> other benefits that a college education confers.
>
> If that's the way an education is to be perceived, its costs will go up while
> its quality goes down. Administrators will seek to remove every part of the
> experience that doesn't contribute to making someone more employable (goodbye
> liberal arts education!) while simultaneously delivering the "essential" parts
> as cheaply as possible (hello adjuncts!). All the while, prices will go up to
> reflect the (ick) "increased earning potential" of graduates.
>
> Research suffers for similar reasons -- the public is being trained to demand a
> financial return on a financial investment, but that's simply not the way
> research works. Most research will produce very little practical knowledge that
> leaks out into the real world in the form of products or technologies; the
> handful of projects that do literally transform how we live and think. The
> problem is that we can't identify which projects will be which before we
> actually commit, so we've got to do a lot of them with the knowledge that most
> won't yield much. This kind of thinking is total anathema to the market because
> everyone expects returns on each individual project!
>
> This will never get fixed unless the public's perceptions of what education and
> research are for are dramatically changed. We all need to stop thinking so
> damned much about money (specifically, accumulating obscene amounts of it) and
> start focusing on a more abstract definition of quality of life. There needs to
> be a new framework for evaluating the value of things and activities that
> doesn't simply fall back on a bottom line calculation. This is going to be a
> glacial shift in thinking, but it's the only long-game I can come up with
> that's going to allow academia to reach its potential.

(via
[Quora](https://www.quora.com/Whats-the-biggest-obstacle-in-reforming-academia-today/answer/Brian-Farley-3))
