template: post.haml
category: science
author: Vivek Rai
date: 01/9/2016
title: Notes from WMCB 2016
---
A mathematical and computational biology conference
---

This weekend (Jan 9 - Jan 10), I participated in a workshop on mathematical and
computational biology (WMCB-2016) organized at [Indian Institute of Science
Education and Research Kolkata](http://iiserkol.ac.in/) (IISER-K). This annual
workshop is co-sponsored by NNMCB, a group of multiple premier institutions in
India that collaborate and coordinate activities in the area of interest.

The main motivation of participating in this workshop was to present and discuss
my ongoing work on the knotted proteins as it seemed like a reasonable place to
attract further ideas and help. Sadly, I could not get in touch with my advisor
before the abstract submission deadline and did not submit a poster.
Nevertheless, it was fun to listen new speakers and learn about new developments
in a field. You never know where ideas can come from.

The workshop consisted of 8 invited lectures, 6 short talks combined with
a poster session spanning over two days. There were no *hands on* or practical
component even though the workshop was called *a workshop*. I guess it is
because of the short talks, a 15 minute presentation given by PhD students as
a demonstration of their work.

#### Venue

IISER-K is [located]() some 50 kms off [Kolkata], the nearest metropolitan.
Located in a countryside area with almost nothing around, IISER-K stands proudly
with its large, lush green and beautiful campus. Although, a few of building
units are still under construction, the place will soon be a great center of
research in India.

I visited the main Mohanpur campus. Another transit campus is located at xxx.

#### Talks

The complete list of research talks, short talks, list of posters can be found
on the website. In the space below, I'll talk in brief about my impression of
the workshop along with brief description as necessary.

##### Complex systems and networks

There has been growing interest in modeling and analysis of complex biological
networks in the past decade (Barabasi *et al.*). Primarily because advancement
in data acquisition platforms has enabled us to generate huge amount of *omics*
data
- genomics, transcriptomics, protemics, metabolomics, fluxomics to name a few.
Naturally, there is a lot of inter-disciplinary participation from physics and
mathematics departments.

**Sarika Jalan** heads the Complex Systems Lab at Indian Institute of Technology
Indore. She is trying to create an universal framework for a generalized
analysis of protein-protein interaction data from diseased cells. The framework
will allow one to easily identify key players

Later, **Indrani Bose**, an eminent senior physicist at Bose Institute provided
a hardcore illustration of the cells as complex systems by expanding on the
topic of cell differentiation. The talk was dense but the key idea was to convey
the importance of noise and heterogeneity in the cellular system as an important
component of decision including cell differentiation. I will list a couple of
interesting papers she suggested for more information.

### Big Data Analysis

It should no longer be surprising that a computational biology workshop involves
a large number of talks on big data analysis or *multi-omics* integration. The
talks by **Saumyadipta Pyne** (IIPH Hyderabad) and **Krishna Prasad** (IIT
Gandhinagar) focused on acquisition and analysis of high dimensional data either
from single cell analysis or neuroimaging data. In these cases, often the
breakthrough is in creating a new model that describes your data instead of
trying to reduce its complexity.

### Computational Protein Design

An interesting talk outlining a general computational strategy of protein
design. For those who are unfamiliar, protein design is an inverse problem of
protein folding, wherein you start from a known structure and its sequence and
work out alternative sequences. The motivation for this problem is rather subtle
as to why would anyone want to have a different sequence for same structure. And
if different, why not just carry out a single mutagenesis. The key idea,
however, is not to generate just a different sequence but a novel sequence with
strikingly different properties of interest. For example, we may want a protein
structure with same sequence but different affinity so that it acts as an
inhibitor. Similar to reverse engineering.

But how do you do it? I will write about it in detail in my other posts.

### Mechanical Organization of Cell

The talks by **Anirban Sain** (IIT Bombay) and **Ranjith Padinhateeri**(IIT
Bombay) aimed to understand the mechanical organization of a cell. How do the
dynamics of cytoskeletal filaments drive shape transformation, cell division and
other process that require force generation and modulation.

A good part about these talks were the pretty electron microscopy pictures they
show.

### Short Talks

Several short talks by PhD students were presented. A couple that I found
interesting are:

* 

However, one fact that disappoints me slightly is that most of the researchers
do not really care about an experimental evidence in support of the theory or
analysis they put forward. The general attitude is, "*we're done. it is now up
to experimentalists to build on this work.*" We need more collaborations.
