template: post.haml
category: notes
author: Vivek Rai
date: 12/29/2015
title: Lessons for good life
---
Robert Waldinger's TED Talk
---

[Robert Waldinger: What makes a good life? Lessons from the longest study on
happiness](http://www.ted.com/talks/robert_waldinger_what_makes_a_good_life_lessons_from_the_longest_study_on_happiness/transcript?language=en)

Robert Waldinger,[1] a psychiatrist at Harvard Medical School talks about a famous
long term study of adult development done by Harvard and shares his findings
about what made the lives of the participants happy or sad as they aged. While
the talk itself isn't very detailed and offers a *too long, didn't read* summary
(quite typical of a TED talk, probably one of the important reasons to hate it
if you are critical), the publications page[2] on the website offers
a comprehensive and interesting list of findings.

The main ideas that he put forward in this talk:

- Good relations will be the major source of happiness in different stages of
life, specially towards the end.
- Loneliness, though, attractive philosophically, is a *killing* force.
- Lean towards your social relationships by making intermittent efforts
throughout.
- Good relationships will buffer your from the physical and emotional pain due
to other engagements.

All these effects were markedly correlated with the changes in the cognitive
ability, mortality and general well-being.

There is one thing, however, that I would have loved to know. In the beginning,
Robert described two groups of people participating in the study. One group
consisting of students from the Harvard and the other group from poor
neighborhoods of Boston. What differences did he observe in these groups as they
aged? How did the 'happiness' versus 'age' graph of these groups look like? Just
because the latter group had lower expectations, they were happier or could it
be something else?

[1]: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/?term=Robert+J.+Waldinger
[2]: http://adultdevelopment.wix.com/harvardstudy#!publications/c1xn4
