template: post.haml
category: programming
author: Vivek Rai
date: 18/04/2015
title: Designing a Responsive Blog
---
Better display and readability across all devices.
---
Anyone who has subscribed to a web design magazine, a blog, or any *hacker's*
newsletter for that matter, must be having their inbox crammed up with
suggestions on how to create a responsive interface, responsive images, smart
CSS, or better *real life* web design. If you too, are wondering as I did, about all
this fuss and what does it mean to have your website respond, then I hope that this
short can provide you an initial understanding of concepts.

With an increasing fraction of public connecting to Internet and accessing
content through their mobile devices, it has become necessary to design your website's
interface keeping in mind proper layout and display across most of these
devices (if not all). These devices may vary significantly in resolution,
aspect-ratio, orientation and other features making it difficult to write clean
CSS and design a layout that displays appropriately across all.

No worries!

[CSS3](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/CSS/CSS3) introduced media
queries that greatly simplified the task of tailoring the content presentation
without having to change the content itself. As appropriately summed up in this
responsive web design
[guide](https://developers.google.com/web/fundamentals/layouts/rwd-fundamentals/use-media-queries?hl=en)
by Google -

>Media queries are simple filters that can be applied to CSS styles. They make
>it easy to change styles based on the characteristics of the device rendering
>the content, including the display type, width, height, orientation and even
>resolution.

Media queries are simple rules that take a `media-type` and at least one
expression that defines the scope of CSS styles within the block of that
particular query. These queries are evaluated each time as the values of
associated features change and are applied to your page dynamically as soon as
any of them evaluates to `true`.

#### Pseudo code
    @media (query) {
    /* CSS Rules used when query matches */
    }

The expressions can be defined using `media-features` and several
of them combined into powerful expressions using logical operators `and`,
`not`, `only` and commas (equivalent to `or`).

#### Example

    @media (min-width: 700px) and (orientation: landscape) {
        .sidebar {
            margin: 0;
        }
    }

In this example, the expression will evaluate to `true` if your viewport size
is more than `700px` and orientation set in `landscape` mode, thereby applying
the styles within the block and setting the sidebar margin to 0. Also, note
that in this example we didn't specify any `media-type` which means `media-type
all`. For complete description of supported media types and media features, you
can refer to [Mozilla Web
Guide](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/CSS/Media_queries#Pseudo-BNF_(for_those_of_you_that_like_that_kind_of_thing)).

Once you have the media expressions set up based on the devices you want to
support, you need to design the corresponding rules like changing the layout,
updating font size, hiding/showing elements and so on depending on your
requirements. Once you're done, go ahead and test for the intended effects
at [responsivetest.net](http://responsivetest.net/).

An example from my own site:

    /* Apply this rule if the device type is screen and minimum screen width is
       800px. */

    @media only screen and (min-width: 50em) {
        html { font-size: 90%; }
        #banner { width: 750px; }
        article { width: 600px; }
    }

Few hours spent for worth!
